#summary KouChat news
#labels Featured

= News =


== 09.02.2013 - KouChat for Android v0.7.0 is out! ==

A short changelog this time:

 * Added support for smileys: :)  :(  :p  :D  ;)  :O  :@  :S  ;(  :$  8)

Hope this brightens up your day :)
Get it on Google play, or download the apk from the downloads section.


-- Christian Ihle


----


== 15.12.2012 - GitHub removed all downloads ==

GitHub has decided that they don't want to host downloads anymore. I used to have the Android apk-files there, for those unable to install KouChat from Google play. The files have been moved to the downloads section of this site instead. 

I wish they had notified me about the change, instead of just removing the functionality and making me "google" the reason. Anyway, the announcement from GitHub can be read here: https://github.com/blog/1302-goodbye-uploads


-- Christian Ihle


----


== 08.12.2012 - KouChat for Android v0.6.0 is out! ==

Now it's time for Android! This release adds support for private chats, opening links in the browser on click, and a few other small improvements.

Please note: like the desktop version, the license has changed to the LGPL v3.

Changelog:

 * Imported backend code from KouChat v1.2.0 for desktop
 * Changed license from GPL v3 to LGPL v3
 * Added support for private chat
 * Made links clickable in the chat
 * Made sure the text view is scrolled to the bottom when orientation changes
 * Updated the title of the main chat to not mention a topic if the topic is not set
 * Made it easier to see who you are in the user list by making "you" appear in bold text

Get it on Google play, or download the apk from github. See [Android] for links.


-- Christian Ihle


----


== 19.11.2012 - KouChat v1.2.0 is out! ==

It's release time again! Highlights in this release includes the option to choose which network interface to use, prescaled icons that looks much better than the old ones that Java scaled on the fly, simpler commands for file transfers in console mode, and several bug fixes.

Changelog:

 * Improved debug logging
 * Added support for user specified network interface, in the settings
 * Fix for "java.io.IOException: mark/reset not supported" when playing sound on newer versions of Java 6 (u33) and Java 7 (u5)
 * Added the 4 status icons in svg format
 * Added prescaled status icons for the system tray. 16x16px for Windows, 22x22px for KDE and 24x24px for Gnome
 * Updated kou_shortcut.ico with sizes from 16x16px to 256x256px
 * Updated kou_shortcut.png to 256x256px
 * Fixed crash when starting KouChat on systems with the clock set to unix epoch, to support devices without a clock battery
 * Fixed several Swing event dispatch thread issues
 * Changed the /cancel command from {{{/cancel <nick> <file>}}} to {{{/cancel <nick> <id>}}}
 * Changed the /receive command from {{{/receive <nick> <file>}}} to {{{/receive <nick> <id>}}}
 * Changed the /reject command from {{{/reject <nick> <file>}}} to {{{/reject <nick> <id>}}}
 * Fixed issue where file transfers were still shown in the /transfers command after a user had logged off without cancelling, rejecting or accepting the transfer
 * Fixed repaint issue with the buttons when returning from the system tray, on some configurations

Enjoy :)

(I haven't forgotten about Android, in case you wonder :)


-- Christian Ihle


----


== 10.06.2012 - KouChat v1.1.0 is out! ==

I noticed something interesting today when I worked on the finishing touches of this release. It's been exactly 3 years, on the day, since v1.0.0 was released! I did write the announcement on 11.06.2009, but it was available for download from 10.06.2009.

Anyway, what's new in v1.1.0 then?
It contains some new functionality based on feature requests, some bug fixes, and a license change from GPL to LGPL. The license change is because people have asked me about using the network features in KouChat as a library. And that's ok with me.

Changelog:

  * Fix for PatternSyntaxException when parsing commands containing regex     meta characters
  * If the main window is minimized to the system tray and the system tray disappears, the window is shown as minimized in the taskbar instead
  * If the system tray is missing, the minimize feature minimizes to the taskbar instead of being deactivated
  * Removed annoying error message if the system tray is missing
  * Added optional balloon notification on new messages and new private messages
  * Changed license to LGPL v3
  * Added support for logging private chats
  * Added support for the startup argument --no-private-chat to disable private chat
  * Added support for the startup argument --always-log to force logging enabled and disable the option to deactivate again
  * Added support for the startup argument --log-location to specify a custom directory to store log files
  * Increased the number of possible simultaneous KouChat instances (with private chat) and file transfers from 10 to 50

Hope you enjoy this new release! My focus is now on the Android version again.


-- Christian Ihle


----


== 04.06.2012 - KouChat for Android v0.5.1 is out! ==

This release adds support for Android 4.0, Ice Cream Sandwich.
Get it on Google play, or download the apk from github. Links [Android here].

I've also been working on KouChat (desktop) v1.1.0, and hope to release it soon. Stay tuned!


-- Christian Ihle


----


== 29.11.2011 - KouChat goes Android ==

The first release of KouChat for Android is now available on Android Market!
More details [Android here].


-- Christian Ihle


----


== 15.11.2009 - KouInject goes public ==

I've been working on a dependency injection framework for use in KouChat. This code is now released as a new project called [http://kouinject.googlecode.com/ KouInject]. Since the project is unknown for everyone except myself, I'll advertise the release here ;)

-- Christian Ihle


----


== 14.06.2009 - The road ahead ==

Like so many other open source developers, I started KouChat because I had an itch to scratch. With 1.0 out the door, a big part of that itch has been scratched.

But I'm not all done yet! I've added a [Roadmap roadmap] to the wiki with my current thoughts for the road ahead. This roadmap is mostly made up of suggestions from other KouChat users. Which is great! Comments and suggestions are welcome :)

-- Christian Ihle


----


== 11.06.2009 - KouChat v1.0.0 is out! ==

It's finally here :D

The great one point zero! This is a big milestone for me. This means I finally finished what I started. I usually think of 1.0 as the first non-beta release of a piece of software. Full of shortcuts, half-baked features, and bugs. Just to get something out as soon as possible. For some strange reason, that wasn't the way KouChat was developed. I don't even remember when it all started, but it was obviously before the release of 0.5.1 in early 2006 at SourceForge. Maybe six months earlier. Or more. Time flies when you're having fun :)

So, finished you ask? Well, not entirely finished, but I'll come back to that some other day. What I meant was that my initial goals for 1.0 had been reached. And then some! I speculated in calling my first public release 1.0, but thought that KouChat needed a couple of more features and a bit more testing first. Then I got bored with Java and started porting KouChat to C++. And I got bored with C++ and ported the improvements back into the Java version. This was all in a time when KouChat was entirely in Norwegian. The code and the user interface.

For 0.6.0 I translated everything to English. After getting 0.6.1 out the door I felt so close to being done that I jumped straight to 0.9.0. That was in 2007! My plan for the 0.9 series was things like private chat, message logging, console mode, UTF-8 support and sounds. Most of which was done a long time ago. Except I never completed the console mode. What was missing was file transfer. I kind of hit a wall there. Didn't know how to do it, so I kept avoiding it, and came up with other features or fixes to do. And I got suggestions from others, so there was always something else to do.

But it came to a point where enough is enough! I had to finish this. And that was the main focus of this release. And putting some finishing touches on things.

OK, enough babbling, here is a short summary of the most important changes:

  * Fixed a bug when canceling an ongoing file transfer
  * Fixed a concurrency bug in classes for sending and receiving messages
  * Changed to using the user name from the operating system as the default nick name if no settings are found
  * Added a new dialog window for showing unexpected errors to the user
  * Added missing commands for file transfer in console mode
  * Added --debug startup option to activate all logging
  * Added tips & tricks from the wiki to the help menu
  * And some fixes and improvements here and there

Have fun, and don't forget to submit those feature requests and bug reports in the issue tracker :)

-- Christian Ihle


----


== 28.12.2008 - KouChat v0.9.9 is out! ==

I released KouChat version 0.9.9 yesterday, 11 months after 0.9.8.

What happened? My plan was to release 1.0 shortly after 0.9.8, because my todo list was getting very short. I didn't really have any big plans for the next release. So I took a break! Then I started to use Vista at work, and noticed that Vista handled networking in a very strange way which KouChat didn't expect.

And then I got suggestions of improvements and feature requests. And I wanted to do a lot of documentation, and testing. And take more breaks! Hey, where did those months go!?

Well, here's what you can expect in this release:

  * Hopefully better handling of the network connection
  * Smileys :)
  * A choice of which look and feel to use
  * Tweaks to the user interface, especially with the GTK+ and Nimbus look and feels
  * Improvements to notifications when a new message arrives
  * Lots of new code documentation
  * Open folder button on the file transfer dialog
  * Support for running KouChat on more advanced local networks with routers
  * Misc tweaks and fixes all over

You might also have noticed that I brushed up the web site with more screenshots and more information.

Have fun :)

-- Christian Ihle